README.md, before:

![TableflipperExtreme](logo.png?raw=true "Tableflipper Extreme")

This is Tableflipper Extreme, a MTG deck creator for Tabletop Simulator. It eats decklists from files or directly from tappedout.net and deckbox.org, and outputs files you can import to Tabletop Simulator.

The application will always use the oldest possible printing of a card, disregarding promo printings, exception of basic lands, which are by default Guru lands, but can be also configured to a handful of other sets. For those willing, there is an option to use the latest reprintings of cards, or even specific printings. See the `--reprint` option as well as the section about adding scryfall URLS to plaintext decklists.

This project was started because using online converters such as frogtown.me are a pain in the ass. This one is too, but not to me.

## Getting started

Install Python 3.5 or newer.

Install Imagemagick.

Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

Run `python flipper.py -n <deckname> <decklist>`

For a list of available options, run `python flipper.py --help`

## Usage

TableflipperExtreme supports two ways of importing deck data: as plaintext files or from URLs. [Delicious example 8-Rack list](http://tappedout.net/mtg-decks/mono-black-8-rack-modern-discard/) created by The Professor from [Tolarian Community College](https://www.youtube.com/user/tolariancommunity).

### Plaintext

If you want to create a decklist from a plaintext file, supply the filename as an argument:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack 8rack.txt

The format of the plaintext file is the same as when exporting as a .txt file from Tappedout:

    2 Dakmor Salvage
    4 Ensnaring Bridge
    3 Inquisition of Kozilek
    4 Liliana of the Veil
    4 Mutavault
    3 Pack Rat
    4 Raven's Crime
    4 Shrieking Affliction
    2 Slaughter Pact
    4 Smallpox
    10 Swamp
    4 The Rack
    4 Thoughtseize
    4 Urborg, Tomb of Yawgmoth
    4 Wrench Mind

    Sideboard:
    2 Darkblast
    2 Dismember
    2 Extirpate
    4 Grafdigger's Cage
    2 Surgical Extraction
    3 Torpor Orb

Sideboard is supported, and reading the decklist is done case-insensitively. If the card count is missing, it is assumed to be 1.

Also, instead of giving card names, it is possible to just list the URLs to their respective scryfall pages. This mode is very useful for generating tokens and getting specific prints of cards. For example, the example below will result in a deck consisting of Krenko and a Goblin token.

    Krenko, Mob Boss
    https://scryfall.com/card/tdds/3


### URL

To create a decklist using an URL, simply supply the URL to your decklist as you would with a filename:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack "http://tappedout.net/mtg-decks/mono-black-8-rack-modern-discard/"

This works with deckbox.org URLs aswell.

## Getting the results into Tabletop Simulator

The application will generate a number of files for your deck. There will be a \<deckname\>.json file, as well as a number of \<deckname\>\_image\_#.jpg files. The image files contain the card faces for your deck. You will need to find a way to upload these to some publicly available host, such as Dropbox, and then edit the .json file to point to these hosted files. In the .json file you will find lines such as `"FaceUrl": "<REPLACE WITH URL TO imagename.jpg>"`. (Ctrl-F will be your friend here). Change these to `"FaceUrl":"https://example.com/imagename.jpg"`.

Once this is done, you can drop the .json file in your Tabletop Simulator Saved Objects folder.

If you do not want to be bothered with this, you can use the Imgur integration, detailed below. However, the image quality will be degraded considerably by Imgur's automatic compression.

## Resolution

The application uses the large (672x936 pixels) jpg scans of cards available from scryfall. These images are then scaled down by a factor of 50%, resulting in card image sheets of around 4 megabytes in size. This results in a very acceptable quality for most people. For those willing to tolerate large file sizes, there is a `--hires` option available, which forfeits the scaling, resulting in card image sheets of around 16 megabytes. Note, that when hosted at Imgur, these images will undergo further compression, negating the usefulness of the `--hires` option. Using dropbox or some other generic file hosting is advisable in these cases.

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --hires 8rack.txt

## Reprints

While I personally enjoy the style of older magic cards, there is an option to use the latest non-promo reprints by simply adding the `--reprint` option:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --reprint 8rack.txt

## Basics

By default, Tableflipper Extreme uses Guru basics. However, by using the `--basic` option, the application can also be configured to use other basic lands. Allowed options are: 

`guru`: These are the premium guru basic lands by Terese Nielsen.

`unstable`: New full art lands from the Unstable set, by John Avon.

`alpha`: From the original Limited Edition Alpha set, by various artists.

`core`: For those looking for something understated, the cycle of basics from 10th edition, by John Avon.

`guay`: Gorgeous painterly cycle of basics from Commander 2016 set, by Rebecca Guay

Using the option is simple:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --basic unstable 8rack.txt

## Custom cards

Creating custom magic cards is fun! Having been inspired by the incredible [Urza's Dream Engine](http://andymakes.com/urzasdreamengine/), I added support for custom cards in Tableflipper Extreme. By adding filenames to your decklist, you can create cards from custom images. For example, let's assume a `decklist.txt` file containing the following:

    custom_1.jpg
    custom_2.jpg
    custom_3.jpg

Now, as long as the named custom#.jpg files are in the `imageCache/` folder, you can create the deck as usual:

    python flipper.py -n CustomDeck decklist.txt

You can even mix your custom cards with normal cards, but in this case make sure your custom card images are the same size as the ones downloaded from scryfall (672x936 pixels), or your cards will end up with white borders.

## Imgur integration

By using the `--imgur` option, the app will upload the deck images to Imgur automatically, bypassing the need to upload and edit the deck JSON files yourself. However, Imgur requires all clients using their API to register and supply the credentials given to them, namely the `client_id`. You can generate your own API credentials from here: [Add Client - Imgur](https://api.imgur.com/oauth2/addclient).

Now you can use the integration by simply adding the `--imgur` option, followed by your client id.

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --imgur MYFAKECLIENTID123 8rack.txt

Note that the images are automatically removed from your computer after upload to Imgur.

## Dropbox integration

Similarly to the `--imgur` option, using `--dropbox` option will upload the deck images automatically to Dropbox for hosting. In order to use this option, you will first need to have an active Dropbox account. Then, head to [Developers - Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/developers/apps/create) and create a new Dropbox app. For sensible options, choose "Dropbox API" and "Full Dropbox", and give your app a snazzy name. Click "Create", and in the next page, look for the section "Generated access token". Click the "Generate" button, and copy the given token. This is the token you need to supply to Tableflipper Extreme in order to use the integration:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --dropbox MYFAKEDROPBOXACCESSTOKEN123123123 8rack.txt

Note that the images are automatically removed from your computer after upload to Dropbox.

## GUI

While using graphical user interfaces is for the weak, there is a simple GUI provided with this application for those scared of the mighty CLI. To start the GUI, use the following command:

    python flippergui.py

All of the options for the CLI application have entries in the GUI, and their usage is similar. If you use the Imgur integration through the GUI, your client id will be saved to a file called `imgurId.txt` in the application root directory.

## Data sources and caching

This application pulls card data from from [Scryfall](https://scryfall.com/). Both API calls and image downloads are cached locally. The API calls are cached to a generated file called `scryfallCache.json`, and the images are cached to the directory `imageCache/`. 

If you want to avoid using the API cache, supply the command with `--nocache` option:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --nocache 8rack.txt

If you want to redownload the card images, delete the `imageCache/`directory.

## Theme song

[Official Theme Song Of Tableflipper Extreme](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kQpaT9rhiog)

Happy topdecking, scrublords.

Commit message:

Add import from Archidekt and commander section (#3)

README.md, after:

![TableflipperExtreme](logo.png?raw=true "Tableflipper Extreme")

This is Tableflipper Extreme, a MTG deck creator for Tabletop Simulator. It eats decklists from files or directly from tappedout.net and deckbox.org, and outputs files you can import to Tabletop Simulator.

The application will always use the oldest possible printing of a card, disregarding promo printings, exception of basic lands, which are by default Guru lands, but can be also configured to a handful of other sets. For those willing, there is an option to use the latest reprintings of cards, or even specific printings. See the `--reprint` option as well as the section about adding scryfall URLS to plaintext decklists.

This project was started because using online converters such as frogtown.me are a pain in the ass. This one is too, but not to me.

## Getting started

Install Python 3.5 or newer.

Install Imagemagick.

Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

Run `python flipper.py -n <deckname> <decklist>`

For a list of available options, run `python flipper.py --help`

## Usage

TableflipperExtreme supports two ways of importing deck data: as plaintext files or from URLs. [Delicious example 8-Rack list](http://tappedout.net/mtg-decks/mono-black-8-rack-modern-discard/) created by The Professor from [Tolarian Community College](https://www.youtube.com/user/tolariancommunity).

### Plaintext

If you want to create a decklist from a plaintext file, supply the filename as an argument:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack 8rack.txt

The format of the plaintext file is the same as when exporting as a .txt file from Tappedout:

    2 Dakmor Salvage
    4 Ensnaring Bridge
    3 Inquisition of Kozilek
    4 Liliana of the Veil
    4 Mutavault
    3 Pack Rat
    4 Raven's Crime
    4 Shrieking Affliction
    2 Slaughter Pact
    4 Smallpox
    10 Swamp
    4 The Rack
    4 Thoughtseize
    4 Urborg, Tomb of Yawgmoth
    4 Wrench Mind

    //Sideboard
    2 Darkblast
    2 Dismember
    2 Extirpate
    4 Grafdigger's Cage
    2 Surgical Extraction
    3 Torpor Orb
    
    //Oathbreaker
    1 Jace Beleren

Sideboard is supported, and reading the decklist is done case-insensitively. Commander/Oathbreaker section is also supported. If the card count is missing, it is assumed to be 1.

Also, instead of giving card names, it is possible to just list the URLs to their respective scryfall pages. This mode is very useful for generating tokens and getting specific prints of cards. For example, the example below will result in a deck consisting of Krenko and a Goblin token.

    Krenko, Mob Boss
    https://scryfall.com/card/tdds/3


### URL

To create a decklist using an URL, simply supply the URL to your decklist as you would with a filename:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack "http://tappedout.net/mtg-decks/mono-black-8-rack-modern-discard/"

This works with deckbox.org, archidekt, and scryfall URLs as well.

## Getting the results into Tabletop Simulator

The application will generate a number of files for your deck. There will be a \<deckname\>.json file, as well as a number of \<deckname\>\_image\_#.jpg files. The image files contain the card faces for your deck. You will need to find a way to upload these to some publicly available host, such as Dropbox, and then edit the .json file to point to these hosted files. In the .json file you will find lines such as `"FaceUrl": "<REPLACE WITH URL TO imagename.jpg>"`. (Ctrl-F will be your friend here). Change these to `"FaceUrl":"https://example.com/imagename.jpg"`.

Once this is done, you can drop the .json file in your Tabletop Simulator Saved Objects folder.

If you do not want to be bothered with this, you can use the Imgur integration, detailed below. However, the image quality will be degraded considerably by Imgur's automatic compression.

## Resolution

The application uses the large (672x936 pixels) jpg scans of cards available from scryfall. These images are then scaled down by a factor of 50%, resulting in card image sheets of around 4 megabytes in size. This results in a very acceptable quality for most people. For those willing to tolerate large file sizes, there is a `--hires` option available, which forfeits the scaling, resulting in card image sheets of around 16 megabytes. Note, that when hosted at Imgur, these images will undergo further compression, negating the usefulness of the `--hires` option. Using dropbox or some other generic file hosting is advisable in these cases.

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --hires 8rack.txt

## Reprints

While I personally enjoy the style of older magic cards, there is an option to use the latest non-promo reprints by simply adding the `--reprint` option:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --reprint 8rack.txt

## Basics

By default, Tableflipper Extreme uses Guru basics. However, by using the `--basic` option, the application can also be configured to use other basic lands. Allowed options are: 

`guru`: These are the premium guru basic lands by Terese Nielsen.

`unstable`: New full art lands from the Unstable set, by John Avon.

`unsanctioned`: Full art lands from the Unsanctioned set.

`alpha`: From the original Limited Edition Alpha set, by various artists.

`core`: For those looking for something understated, the cycle of basics from 10th edition, by John Avon.

`guay`: Gorgeous painterly cycle of basics from Commander 2016 set, by Rebecca Guay

Using the option is simple:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --basic unstable 8rack.txt

## Custom cards

Creating custom magic cards is fun! Having been inspired by the incredible [Urza's Dream Engine](http://andymakes.com/urzasdreamengine/), I added support for custom cards in Tableflipper Extreme. By adding filenames to your decklist, you can create cards from custom images. For example, let's assume a `decklist.txt` file containing the following:

    custom_1.jpg
    custom_2.jpg
    custom_3.jpg

Now, as long as the named custom#.jpg files are in the `imageCache/` folder, you can create the deck as usual:

    python flipper.py -n CustomDeck decklist.txt

You can even mix your custom cards with normal cards, but in this case make sure your custom card images are the same size as the ones downloaded from scryfall (672x936 pixels), or your cards will end up with white borders.

## Imgur integration

By using the `--imgur` option, the app will upload the deck images to Imgur automatically, bypassing the need to upload and edit the deck JSON files yourself. However, Imgur requires all clients using their API to register and supply the credentials given to them, namely the `client_id`. You can generate your own API credentials from here: [Add Client - Imgur](https://api.imgur.com/oauth2/addclient).

Now you can use the integration by simply adding the `--imgur` option, followed by your client id.

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --imgur MYFAKECLIENTID123 8rack.txt

Note that the images are automatically removed from your computer after upload to Imgur.

## Dropbox integration

Similarly to the `--imgur` option, using `--dropbox` option will upload the deck images automatically to Dropbox for hosting. In order to use this option, you will first need to have an active Dropbox account. Then, head to [Developers - Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/developers/apps/create) and create a new Dropbox app. For sensible options, choose "Dropbox API" and "Full Dropbox", and give your app a snazzy name. Click "Create", and in the next page, look for the section "Generated access token". Click the "Generate" button, and copy the given token. This is the token you need to supply to Tableflipper Extreme in order to use the integration:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --dropbox MYFAKEDROPBOXACCESSTOKEN123123123 8rack.txt

Note that the images are automatically removed from your computer after upload to Dropbox.

## GUI

While using graphical user interfaces is for the weak, there is a simple GUI provided with this application for those scared of the mighty CLI. To start the GUI, use the following command:

    python flippergui.py

All of the options for the CLI application have entries in the GUI, and their usage is similar. If you use the Imgur integration through the GUI, your client id will be saved to a file called `imgurId.txt` in the application root directory.

## Data sources and caching

This application pulls card data from from [Scryfall](https://scryfall.com/). Both API calls and image downloads are cached locally. The API calls are cached to a generated file called `scryfallCache.json`, and the images are cached to the directory `imageCache/`. 

If you want to avoid using the API cache, supply the command with `--nocache` option:

    python flipper.py -n 8-Rack --nocache 8rack.txt

If you want to redownload the card images, delete the `imageCache/`directory.

## Theme song

[Official Theme Song Of Tableflipper Extreme](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kQpaT9rhiog)

Happy topdecking, scrublords.
